# Algorithms

Check out the following code:
```
int counter = 0;
int direction = 1;
int limit = 64;
void setup()
{
  pinMode(3, OUTPUT);
  analogWrite(3, 0);
}

void loop()
{
  if (counter < limit && direction == 1) {
    counter++;
  }
  if (counter >= limit) {
  	direction = -1;
    counter = limit;
  }
  if (counter > 0 && direction == -1) {
  	counter--;
  }
  if (counter <= 0) {
    direction = 1;
    counter = 0;
  }
  Serial.println(counter);
  analogWrite(3, counter);
  delay(5);
}
```
This is an arduino code. With this, you can blink a led in a faded way. Just plug the led's anode to the arduino's pin 3, connect the cathode to the ground and then it's done.

Arduino's pin 3 is a PWM one, which can regulates the strength of a pulse to a component, and is done with `analogWrite` function. The strength goes from 0 to 64. Each iteration of `loop` changes the strength and assigns the new value to the pin that feeds the led. The strength is enlarged up to one in each iteration, until 64. Then, once reached the limit value, starts to fade out, diminishes the strength down to 1 on each iteration, until 0. Then, again starts to rise up the strength and then goes on the same thing.

In a gaze, it seems that what the algorithm does is much simple for such code, which semmed to the a little long to its intent. I asked to the chatgpt to simplifies the code an then it responded me the following:
```
int counter = 0;
int limit = 64;

void setup()
{
  pinMode(3, OUTPUT);
  analogWrite(3, 0);
}

void loop()
{
  counter += limit * 2 - 1;
  counter %= (limit * 2);
  Serial.println(counter);
  analogWrite(3, abs(counter - limit));
  delay(5);
}
```
And it did! I tested the code generated by the chatgpt and it does exact the same thing! The chatgpt algorithm shrinked out the loop code from 17 to just 5 lines (shrinking as well it's space complecity), and removed a variable as well, still keeping the same behaviour.

It is good to analyses the patterns required in the first code and how they have been preserved in the generated code from chatgpt. So you can fetch techniques used over code's pattern the apply to other codes that you may write and may not be so efficient, as were the case in this simple example.
